---
layout: post
title: 2. Setting up Your First Sensor and Actuator  
permalink: /tutorials/first-sensor.html
author: Bingqing Chen
---
In this tutorial, we will

- Introduce you to **general-purpose input/output (GPIO) pins** on the RPi.
- Teach you how to connect simple circuits with breadboard.
- Guide you to set up your first sensor and actuator and interface with them using Python code

(The content of this tutorial elaborates the information on pp. 7-11 on the **Quick-Start Guide**.)

### **Be sure to shut down and disconnect from power source when you are making connections between the GPIO pins and your circuit.** 

## GPIO Pins
A figure showing the relationship between the card and the real thing. 

Use the ribbon cable and breakout board to connect the GPIO pins to the breadboard.
A figure showing the connection

For those of you who have not worked with breadboard before, 
A figure showing the breadboard 

*For those of you who are not familiar with Python programming, you may want to refer to online resources, such as [this](https://www.learnpython.org/) to get started.*

## Control an LED with a Timer

- Set up the circuit following p. 9 on the **Quick-Start Guide**. The circuit should look like this. 
- Input the following code with Python IDE...
```
import RPi.GPIO as GPIO
import time

GPIO.setmode(GPIO.BCM)

red_led = 18

GPIO.setup(red_led, GPIO.OUT)

while True:
    GPIO.output(red_led, GPIO.HIGH)
    time.sleep(3)
    GPIO.output(red_led, GPIO.LOW)
    time.sleep(1)
```
- Alternatively, all the sample codes used for tutorials in this course are available at this [Github Repository](https://github.com/chenbq1234/12740_code). You may download the repository to your local path. 
- Finally, run the Python script. In the terminal, use the cd command to go to where the Python scripts are stored and use `python fileName.py` to execute the script.  
```
$ cd /path/to/python/script
$ python fileName.py
``` 
- Note that there is not a termination condition in the script, so it will run indefinitely. Press `ctrl+c` on the keyboard to terminate the process. 

## Control the LED with a Button
Now, instead of controlling the LED with a timer, we will add a button into the circuit. 




## Version Control with Git
To collaborate with your teammates, you may want to use version control for your codes. Read this [Guide](https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/) to create your own repository and learn how to manage your codes among the team.  






